.\" git-stuff(7) - additional Git utilities
.\" Copyright (C) 2006-2013 Daniel Baumann <mail@daniel-baumann.ch>
.\"
.\" git-stuff comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details see COPYING.
.\" This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
.\" under certain conditions; see COPYING for details.
.\"
.\"
.TH GIT\-STUFF 7 2013\-03\-10 16 "Git Stuff"

.SH NAME
\fBgit\-stuff\fR \- additional Git utilities

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgit\-stuff\fR is a growing collection of tools for the Git Version Control System.

.SH PROGRAMS
\fBgit\-stuff\fR currently features the following programs.

.IP "\fIgit\-amend\-all\fR(1)" 4
adds all untracked files and amend all changes to the last commit.
.IP "\fIgit\-checkout\-branches\fR(1)" 4
checks out all remote branches.
.IP "\fIgit\-cherry\-pick\fR(1)" 4
does a cherry\-pick for a commit and each all its children.
.IP "\fIgit\-commit\-lazy\fR(1)" 4
creates a new commit with all untracked files and changes.
.IP "\fIgit\-debian\-add\fR(1)" 4
creates a new commit and tag with all untracked files and changes as new debian version.
.IP "\fIgit\-debian\-changelog\fR(1)" 4
creates a new section in debian/changelog with all entries since the last release.
.IP "\fIgit\-whoami\fR(1)" 4
tells about author and committer information.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIgit\fR(1)

.SH BUGS
Bugs can be reported by submitting a bugreport for the git\-stuff package in the Debian Bug Tracking System at <\fIhttp://bugs.debian.org/\fR> or by writing a mail to the author.

.SH AUTHOR
git\-stuff was written by Daniel Baumann <\fImail@daniel-baumann.ch\fR>.
